Hello and welcome back to the course in Python programming in the previous tutorial we created this
lovely dashboard that contains four charts.
Wish we had generated previously.
And as you can see it's very simple to create dashboards in Python you just use the subplots function
to create the layout and then you populate the layout with the charts that you're after.
Now today we've got a very exciting topic ahead of us.
We're talking about selling a dashboard and styling these charts with the dashboard.
I'm really looking forward to it.
Right now it really looks very good.
But as you'll see we can make it look extremely fantastic and extremely captivating.
And that is a very important part in our science to not only convey the findings but also to make the
report look interesting and appealing so that people will want to read it that they will be engaged
in reading it.
All right.
So let's get to it without any further ado.
So I'm going to zoom in to 200 percent and now I'm just going to basically copy everything we have.
So again I'll copy the imports because in case you're jumping into this tutorial you will need to run
the imports if you have a jet so I'm going to first change is to mark up the line.
And here we're going to say styling dashboards and now just copy the imports.
There we go.
And now what you can do is just copy this whole dashboard code because we're going to be building upon
it on top of it.
So I'm going to run that so that the dashboard appears here again.
Let's hear it a second.
There it is.
And now we're going to start styling.
All right.
So how can we style our dashboard.
Well let's start with one of these plots to begin with.
We'll start with.
Well this one we've already started selling it actually so you can see that we've added some collars
.
We've got a color map see maps says for a map we've added the outline and it looks great it really looks
good so let's do the same for these other two Cady plots and just for to make it different and to kind
of like experiment with other types of color maps.
We're going to use a different color map for these two plus And because also the these two plus there
present something else this plot is audience rating versus critic rating.
These two plots are audience which is budget and critic versus budget.
So it will be useful for us to use a different Kalimat for these two plots so that the reader can right
away visually assess that these two are different to that.
All right so let's get started here.
We're going to do something similar to the plot and the Plot Number Four So first of all I'm going to
remove this tape comment and there's group them like this.
So this is a plot one plot.
All that said Plaza zero.
This is lots.
What is this.
0 1 0 1 0 0.
Just so that we know where we are while we're navigating.
And finally what.
One one.
All right.
So we're going to start with plot 0 0 the one on top left.
And here we want to add the same kind of parameters so we can say Caccamo we really have the common
ground sashayed equals true shaid lowest equals true and then see map.
So here we're going to choose a different map.
And let's start with a simple one we've already used Reds.
Let's start with blues and see how that looks.
So if I run that I need a comma of course and you know comma backslash.
So for on that do it a second.
There you go.
So that looks quite nice already and you can also.
Another good idea is to add an outline again because it is quite rough over here along the edges.
Going to add an outline will say K-1 B doesn't really matter what name you give it.
So here we don't say we don't do a shading we just add the outline like that and we'll just bring the
axes back here so far on this.
This will give us a nice outline and make it look contoured.
So there you go that that looks much better radio right.
So and then we can do the same thing for this plot over here.
Now what I wanted to show you is that what kind of column maps exist what kind of column maps can you
use in seaborne.
Well for starters where did you find the columns.
Personally I think the best way the easiest way is if you make a mistake in your code for instance you
say blues or double s or something like that.
If you run that then you'll bring up an error and it'll actually tell you a value error column Map blues
is not recognize possible values are.
And then it just lists the possible values for you right here so you can go ahead and just copy these
into a text editor or something and you can experiment with any one any column maps from here you can
combine them so you can use one column for the fill one.
Another column for the contour and it can give you some great results so depending on who you're presenting
to what kind of organization it is what's kind of reported is what the report is about you might find
different column maps are more suitable to different situations.
So in this case I'm just going to use something that I've found that looks really appealing for our
situation.
And then you should feel free to experiment and try out different ones so the color I'm going to use
for the fill is Inferno and the outline is going to be very contrasting is going to be cool.
So you can see them here if you scroll down you'll find cool is here.
And in fairness here as well and also when you say if you want to reverse the column up you just under
.
You put an underscore and then an R and that will reverse the order in which the colors come.
So if I run this now you'll see what it looks like.
So there you can see that we've got the inferno color scheme.
So it goes from yellow and then so like very hot in the middle and then dies off.
And then we've got the contrasting cool outline and makes it look like neon ish type of mix a non-issue
chart.
And it also draws a lot of attention to it so in the middle you can really see the outline you can.
But at the same time it kind of matches the feel.
But then towards the edges the outline is very contouring and gives this kind of futuristic look and
I personally really like this type of charge and it works well in our dashboard as you'll see as we
style the rest of the charts.
It will be a good fit.
All right so that's our first chart second chart as we discussed.
We're going to keep it in the same styling because we want our users to visually understand right away
that these charts are related that they're talking about the same thing.
So it's easy for them to understand that without having to look at the axes or try and read the chart
in advance so it's basically right away an obvious thing.
So here we're going to do a similar thing going to copy that and we're going to replace that here and
we'll just say 0 1.
So there you go that's how critic training.
Have a look at that.
Of course somewhere I forgot something.
Let's have a look.
What did I forget.
All right so let's change this to be here and let's try that again.
There's just some spaces after the line continuation character or some tabs so just make sure that doesn't
happen.
Otherwise just kind of what you can do is always just delete and then press enter.
That will fix it.
All right so there we go.
Now you can see that these two charts look very very slick.
They look I think they look fantastic personally.
Now we've got to work on these remaining charts so what are we going to do here.
Well for these charts one thing that we can add or we can change is definitely the background.
So as you see the background here is black and that is an effect that black is part of the color scheme
for inferno so it's the last color.
And here we were saying shade low is true.
So if we don't say Shiloh's true then the black won't be here and will be just the same background as
these two.
But it actually looks pretty good so let's try get these background black as well.
How do we do that.
Well we need to look at our set style which is at the top.
We've got dark grid.
But how do we make it black because we know that the only options available here there are not many
options or actually just white white grid dark and dark green.
These are preset styles and ticks.
So how do we actually make it just black.
Well we can pass a keyword parameter or keyword argument.
So we're going to create a dictionary here.
And the keyword argument that we're after is called axes don't face color.
American spelling of color.
And then we'll say here we'll say black is kind of the background of your chart and that's that's a
way to circumvent the predefined style so the start grid is not just black it's got it's got a blue
kind of bluish background.
Here is saying we want the background to be black.
Let's have a look.
There you go so now it's black but it still has this grid.
So what we want to do is we want to change it from dark grid to dark.
Or you can just put in white doesn't matter.
The result will be the same.
So basically the style say we want just a bluish background like we had previously and these plots were
a grayish background without a grid.
And then this keyword argument is going to override the gray Scala with black.
So let's have a look at that.
All right so now you can see there's no grid and these charts are assigned to look great.
What else would we change about these charts.
Well the first thing that you can see is that this chart now doesn't look as good on the black background
because the white light.
It's dark in the middle then it goes out to white and it really contrasts the black.
So it just looks like it was like it all to me looks like a blurb there was just dropped onto this black
background doesn't look as great as it used to.
So how can we fix that up.
Well one of the ways we can fix it up is to change the color and also might be a good idea to change
the color to make it even more so different to these charts.
So let's try something else a color scheme that I found for this Plaut years.
Let's go up here.
And here we're going to just say for this plot what I found works pretty well surprisingly well because
it is different to the other parts will say blues here.
And for the Cantore and Reds we're going to say just underscore gray underscore r.
So that's the reversed just in grey color scheme.
Let's have a look at that.
So there you go.
Now you can see that this looks pretty neat.
So the reverse Gray is actually works very well so you can see the white is on the outline instead of
being on the inside.
And therefore it would blend in with the filling.
Now we've reversed it and the gray or the contour is very contrasting to the feel and then it still
stays contrasting as you go out towards the edges.
And personally I find that this chart looks quite mesmerizing it looks like it's actually three dimensional
when you look at the waves over here.
So that is our fourth chart how we stand that.
And as you can see the style of the violin plots isn't really changing because we haven't changed color
scheme here so let's get to our violin plus and change them up a little bit.
So by the way this these are violent parts for just critic creating it is kind of a bit unfair towards
the audience rating so we've got audience rating here and we've got budget millions here so maybe you
will want to change these as well to something else.
For instance we could do a violent plot of budget million so maybe it is go ahead and do that will change
it over here.
So say whereas our will and plot there is one plot so we don't want just drama for movies shows the
drama daughter said we want daughter movies and X equals what do we want X to be.
I think we want X to be we could do a genre or we could year so if we have here and sort of critic creating
we say Budget millions.
So let's keep it a year for now.
So if I run this.
That's our original wild plot in the on edited charts there.
That's what it looks like.
And now in the style chart we're going to replace it here as well.
And while we're at it how do we add some color to our well and plus how do we specify the color scheme
that we want to use for the well and plus.
So let's see how to do how we can do that.
Well the violent plots the parameter that we want to use is.
Let's go back here.
The prompter we want to use is called palette palette equals.
And here we want to say we want to choose a palette once again it's the same as a comma.
You could use Inferno you could just cool.
For example let's try.
Cool let's see what that looks like.
So he's cool.
Give it a second to load.
All right so here you can see cool.
Personally I don't think that's the best one.
It doesn't look the best towards the purplish colors.
So towards the higher frequencies we wanted to like it starts to hurt your eyes or blend in with the
black somehow.
So we want to change a color and a good one I found in this case is yellow so y l or R for Orange and
R.G. for red yellow orange red.
So I give that a go and see what our result looks like.
There we go so I find this one looks pretty interesting.
So you can see that how the budget in millions has been changing throughout the years hasn't been changing
that much so.
But at the same time you can see that the width has been changing so that's showing you where the concentration
of the different movies is where the different points are so you can always change it to.
Very quickly you can change it to genre for instance and have a look at that as well.
So it depends on what insights you want to convey what charge you want to include in your final result
.
So genre in this case it doesn't look as neat because there isn't that much space but at the same time
you can see how the violin plots change so for action adventure comedy thrill and so on.
So I'm going to keep it at year so we don't make too many changes to the original chart or original
dashboard.
And let's have a look at that.
So this is our final zoom out.
There you go.
So you can see it is a lovely dashboard even though this one is already very interesting very cool.
A bit of styling makes such a huge difference right.
So when you compare this one which looks kind of like Accademia type of focused and it is something
that you put in Room.
Reporter even a published paper looks OK it looks it looks good it conveys the insight.
Whereas this this really stands out.
This is something you put in a presentation for a big conference when you're presenting to a couple
of hundred people or maybe a thousand people you present your present something like this because this
is fun.
This looks amazing it wants people to learn more about what you're trying to tell them and they'll be
curious about these charges because they actually stand out.
And that's a very important part of data science to make your presentation so captivating that the audience
wants to learn more about what you're about to tell them.
So hope you enjoy this tutorial.
Definitely have a play around with that.
There are endless possibilities for you to combine different color schemes and different dashboards
layouts different charts.
It's always good to practice these things because not only will you have fun along the way but also
you will get that hands on experience and I hope you enjoyed the story.
I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy coding.